update existing Assistant docs (#1471)
semgrep/semgrep-docs: docs/semgrep-assistant/overview.md

---
slug: overview
append_help_link: true
title: AI-assisted triage and autofix
hide_title: true
description: Learn how Semgrep Assistant can provide recommendations for triage and remediation of Semgrep findings. 
tags:
  - Semgrep Code
  - Semgrep Supply Chain
  - Semgrep Secrets
  - Semgrep Cloud Platform
  - Semgrep Assistant
---

import MoreHelp from "/src/components/MoreHelp"

# Semgrep Assistant overview

Semgrep Assistant provides GPT-4-powered security recommendations to help you review, triage, and remediate your Semgrep findings.

![Screenshot of Semgrep Assistant message in GitHub](/img/semgrep-assistant-github.png)
*Figure*. Semgrep Assistant detects a false positive.

## Support and availability

> Semgrep Assistant supports findings generated by Semgrep Code, Semgrep Supply Chain, and Semgrep Secrets, and, in many cases, requires using Semgrep Cloud Platform. It is not available on the Semgrep CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Semgrep Assistant supports findings generated by Semgrep Code, Semgrep Supply Chain, and Semgrep Secrets, and, in many cases, requires using Semgrep Cloud Platform. It is not available on the Semgrep CLI.
```

I'm not sure Semgrep Assistant can assist with SSC or Secrets findings - for example, there are no component tags in the Supply Chain or Secrets page.

Can we confirm:

- Component tags - Code only?
- Rules recommendations in Dashboard - Code only?
- Auto-triage - Findings page, so Code only?
- Autofix - Code only
- Rule-writing assistance - we do let users write their own Secrets rules, but not sure if the playground supports this; I am aware this is for Code, because we don't generally enable user-written custom SSC rules.

Maybe priority inbox is a feature that covers all 3 products?

I think verifying this info will result in some minor changes to this doc (headings are arranged by product then feature?)

Author: Assistant works across all three products; see [the discussion beginning at 19:25](https://us-30862.app.gong.io/call?id=5043540070866739060).

As it is, I think all of those things that you've flagged as Code-only are written as such; I will add docs for SSC and Secrets as they roll out in the UI. That said, Priority inbox does already cover all products.

The only thing I'm unsure about is secrets rule writing; I'll check on this.

Semgrep Assistant is available to users of the following source code managers (SCMs):
  * GitHub Cloud

>   * GitLab, including SaaS and self-managed plans

Reviewer: I think GitLab has a self-managed plan that is not self-hosted, right? Is that a pertinent distinction here?

Semgrep Assistant does not support the use of GitHub Enterprise Server (self-hosted).

### Language support

Semgrep Assistant supports [the same languages as Semgrep Code](/supported-languages).

## Features

### Component tags

**Component tags** use GPT-4 to categorize a finding based on its function, such as:

- Payments
- User authentication
- Infrastructure

By categorizing your code through component tags, Semgrep Assistant can help you prioritize **high-risk issues**, such as remediating a code finding related to payments or user authentication.

![Semgrep Assistant Component tag list](/img/assistant-component-tags.png)

> ### Rules recommendations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Suggested categories for rules
```

I tried to come up with an unambiguous title.

"Rules recommendations" could be "giving users recommendations for rules to add in Policies" and "Categorizing rules" could be implying the AI does this automatically once enabled. So I went with "suggest".

Semgrep Assistant suggests rule categories for your rules through the Assistant recommendations in the **Dashboard** page. To accept the suggestion, click the **Accept** button, and Semgrep Assistant automatically updates the rule with the suggested category.

> 

Reviewer: 1. Can we add a list of categories ? I checked my dinky deployment in SCP and it only had **Security** and **Best practices**. 
2. Can we say what value the user gains from these accurate recommendations and where the user sees it? (a partial screenshot rather than the whole Findings screen is ok, see ["Crop screenshots to show..."](https://developers.google.com/style/images#create-and-save-images) in link.)

Reviewer 2: @Sly1029 @jaksiks Is this actually supported yet? I don't think we support this yet @khorne3

### Auto-triage

Semgrep Assistant uses GPT-4's understanding of programming languages and libraries and your code and triage history to auto-triage findings and indicate if a finding can safely be ignored. For every recommendation to ignore a finding, Semgrep also provides guidance with an explanation on why this is the case.

> It can then surface its recommendations through PR or MR comments, so developers can fix or triage an issue without switching contexts. Semgrep Assistant can also send notifications through Slack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Semgrep presents these recommendations through Slack and PR or MR comments, so developers can fix or triage an issue without switching contexts.
```

![Screenshot of Semgrep Assistant in a Slack notification](/img/semgrep-assistant-slack.png#md-width)
    *Figure*. Semgrep Assistant in a Slack notification.

You can view findings that Assistant suggests should be **Ignored** in Semgrep Cloud Platform's **Findings page**. <!-- #10438 -->

### Autofix

> Semgrep Assistant can suggest [autofix](/writing-rules/autofix/) code snippets for Semgrep rules that don't have human-written autofix suggestions when it identifies a true positive. Assistant customizes the code snippets it provides based on previous feedback, if any, and your rule customizations. For example, if you have a custom rule that recommends a specific sanitizer, then Assistant will recommend its use in the autofix suggestion.

Reviewer: On first read I was wondering if we were autofixing the rule (i.e. a badly written rule) or the code.

>  ou can set the minimum autofix confidence level required to display autofix suggestions from Semgrep Assistant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can set the minimum autofix confidence level required to display autofix suggestions from Semgrep Assistant.
```
Happy to report Vale caught this.

> This feature is only active in PR and MR comments. Developers can review and verify Semgrep's generated fixes before they're applied.

Reviewer: Note that I believe this feature is for Code only, and to minimize changes in your body text / content, we can simply add a heading "Semgrep Code"... above these Code-only features.

> ![ Screenshot of Semgrep Assistant generating a potential fix](/img/semgrep-assistant-autofix.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Semgrep Assistant generating a potential fix](/img/semgrep-assistant-autofix.png)
```
This is an error that was copied over from older docs, I am sorry to say. See https://developers.google.com/style/images#alt-text , which states, "Don't include phrases like Image of or Photo of."

*Figure*. Semgrep Assistant generates a potential fix.

> You can view findings for which Assistant has generated autofix snippets in Semgrep Cloud Platform's **Findings page**. <!-- #10438 --> The finding's detail page also includes a link to the PR or MR comment with the autofix since the PR or MR allows for directly committing the autofix. <!-- #10516 -->

Reviewer: How do I view this?

Reviewer: To clarify: there's no steps to view it, and the screenshot is that of the 'Assistant thinks this is a False Positive' type of feature (TP/FP assessment).

Author: I updated screenshot and reworded a bit to clarify (hopefully)

![Sample finding entry with Semgrep Assistant verdict](/img/sept-2023-assistant-findings.png)

## Privacy and legal considerations

> Semgrep gets API permissions to access code on your pre-selected GitHub or GitLab repositories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Semgrep uses API permissions to access code on your pre-selected GitHub or GitLab repositories.
```
Just a minor suggestion.
